[Autoscaling] Add end user documentation (#1)
barkbay/cloud-on-k8s: docs/orchestrating-elastic-stack-applications/elasticsearch/autoscaling.asciidoc

:parent_page_id: elasticsearch-specification
:page_id: autoscaling
ifdef::env-github[]
****
link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/master/k8s-{parent_page_id}.html#k8s-{page_id}[View this document on the Elastic website]
****
endif::[]
[id="{p}-{page_id}"]
= Elasticsearch autoscaling

experimental[]

ECK can leverage the autoscaling API introduced in Elasticsearch 7.11 to adjust automatically the number of Pods and the allocated resources in a tier. Currently, autoscaling is supported for Elasticsearch data tiers and machine learning nodes.

[float]
[id="{p}-enable"]

> == Enabling autoscaling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Enable autoscaling
```

> Autoscaling can be enabled on an Elasticsearch cluster by defining one or more autoscaling policies. Each autoscaling policy applies to one or mode `NodeSets` which share the same set of roles specified in the `node.roles` setting in the Elasticsearch configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable autoscaling on an Elasticsearch cluster, you need to define one or more autoscaling policies. Each autoscaling policy applies to one or mode `NodeSets` which share the same set of roles specified in the `node.roles` setting in the Elasticsearch configuration.
```

[float]
[id="{p}-{page_id}-policies"]

> === Defining autoscaling policies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Define autoscaling policies
```

Autoscaling policies can be defined in the `elasticsearch.alpha.elastic.co/autoscaling-spec` annotation of the Elasticsearch resource. Each autoscaling policy must have the following fields:

* The `name` field is a unique name used to identify the autoscaling policy.
* The `roles` field contains a set of node roles, unique across all the autoscaling policies, used to identify the `NodeSets` to which this policy applies, at least one `NodeSet` with the exact same set of roles must exist in the Elasticsearch resource specification.

> * The `resources` element helps to define the minimum and maximum compute resources usage:

Reviewer: Maybe reformatted as follows:
```suggestion
* `name`: Is a unique name used to identify the autoscaling policy.
* `roles`: Contains a set of node roles, unique across all the autoscaling policies, used to identify the `NodeSets` to which this policy applies. At least one `NodeSet` with the exact same set of roles must exist in the Elasticsearch resource specification.
* `resources`: Helps define the minimum and maximum compute resources usage:
```

> ** `nodeCount` defines the minimum and maximum of nodes allowed the tier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** `nodeCount` defines the minimum and maximum of nodes allowed to the tier.
```
to the tier
by the tier

** `cpu` and `memory` enforce minimum and maximum compute resources usage for the Elasticsearch container.

> ** `storage` enforces minimum and maximum storage request per PersistentVolumeClaim

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** `storage` enforces minimum and maximum storage request per PersistentVolumeClaim.
```

[source,json]
----
{
    "policies": [{
      "name": "di",
      "roles": ["data", "ingest" , "transform"],
      "resources": {
          "nodeCount": { "min": 3, "max": 8 },
          "cpu": { "min": 2, "max": 8 },
          "memory": { "min": "2Gi", "max": "16Gi" },
          "storage": { "min": "64Gi", "max": "512Gi" }
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "ml",
      "roles": ["ml"],
      "resources": {
          "nodeCount": { "min": 1, "max": 9 },
          "cpu": { "min": 1, "max": 4 },
          "memory": { "min": "2Gi", "max": "8Gi" }
      }
    }]
}
----

> CAUTION: A node role should not be referenced in more than one autoscaling policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: A node role should not be referenced in more than one autoscaling policy.
```

> In the case of storage the following restrictions apply:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of storage, the following restrictions apply:
```

- Scaling the storage size automatically requires the `ExpandInUsePersistentVolumes` feature to be enabled. It also requires a storage class that supports link:https://kubernetes.io/blog/2018/07/12/resizing-persistent-volumes-using-kubernetes/[volume expansion].
- Only one persistent volume claim per Elasticsearch node is supported when autoscaling is enabled.
- Volume size cannot be scaled down.

[float]
[id="{p}-{page_id}-resources"]

> === Setting limits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Set the limits
```

> The value set for memory and cpu limits are computed by applying a ratio to the calculated resource request. For memory the default ratio between the request and the limit is 1, meaning that request and limit have the same value. For cpu the default ratio is 0, which means that no limit is set. You can change the default ratio between the request and the limit for both the cpu and memory range using the `requestsToLimitsRatio` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The value set for memory and CPU limits are computed by applying a ratio to the calculated resource request. For memory, the default ratio between the request and the limit is 1. This means that request and limit have the same value. For CPU the default ratio is 0, which means that no limit is set. You can change the default ratio between the request and the limit for both the CPU and memory range by using the `requestsToLimitsRatio` field.
```

> For example, you can remove the memory limit and set a cpu limit to twice the value of the request as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can remove the memory limit and set a CPU limit to twice the value of the request, as follows:
```

[source,json]
----
{
    "policies": [{
        "name": "di-hot",
        "roles": ["data_hot", "ingest", "transform"],
        "resources": {
            "nodeCount": {
                "min": 2,
                "max": 5
            },
            "cpu": {
                "min": 1,
                "max": 2,
                "requestsToLimitsRatio": 2
            },
            "memory": {
                "min": "2Gi",
                "max": "6Gi",
                "requestsToLimitsRatio": 0
            }
        }
    }]
}
----

> You can find link:{eck_github}/blob/{eck_release_branch}/config/recipes/autoscaling/elasticsearch.yaml[a complete example in the ECK GitHub repository] which will also show you how to finely tune the autoscaling deciders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fine-tune the autoscaling deciders, see link:{eck_github}/blob/{eck_release_branch}/config/recipes/autoscaling/elasticsearch.yaml[a complete example in the ECK GitHub repository].
```

[float]
[id="{p}-{page_id}-polling-interval"]

> === Changing the polling interval

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Change the polling interval
```

The Elasticsearch autoscaling capacity endpoint is polled every minute. This interval duration can be controlled using the `pollingPeriod` field in the autoscaling specification:

[source,json]
----
{
    "pollingPeriod": "42s",
    "policies": [{
        "name": "di-hot",
        "roles": ["data_hot", "ingest", "transform"],
        "resources": {
            "nodeCount": {
                "min": 2,
                "max": 5
            },
            "cpu": {
                "min": 1,
                "max": 2
            },
            "memory": {
                "min": "2Gi",
                "max": "6Gi"
            }
        }
    }]
}
----

[float]
[id="{p}-monitoring"]
== Monitoring

> In addition to the logs generated by the operator an autoscaling status is stored in the `elasticsearch.alpha.elastic.co/autoscaling-status` annotation. The autoscaling status is a JSON document which describes the expected resources for each `NodeSet` managed by an autoscaling policy. It may also contain important messages about the state of the tier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the logs generated by the operator, an autoscaling status is stored in the `elasticsearch.alpha.elastic.co/autoscaling-status` annotation. The autoscaling status is a JSON document which describes the expected resources for each `NodeSet` managed by an autoscaling policy. It may also contain important messages about the state of the tier.
```

[source,json]
----
{
	"policies": [
		{
			"name": "di-hot",
			"nodeSets": [{
				"name": "di-hot",
				"nodeCount": 5
			}],
			"resources": {
				"limits": {
					"cpu": "2",
					"memory": "6Gi"
				},
				"requests": {
					"cpu": "2",
					"memory": "6Gi",
					"storage": "6Gi"
				}
			},
			"state": [{
				"type": "HorizontalScalingLimitReached",
				"messages": [
					"Can't provide total required storage 32588740338, max number of nodes is 5, requires 6 nodes"
				]
			}],
			"lastModificationTime": "2021-03-09T17:01:25Z"
		}
	]
}
----

> Important events, for example when the maximum autoscaling size limit is reached, are also reported though Kubernetes events:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Important events are also reported through Kubernetes events, for example when the maximum autoscaling size limit is reached:
```

[source,sh]
----
kubectl get events
----

[source,sh]
----
40m  Warning  HorizontalScalingLimitReached  elasticsearch/sample   Can't provide total required storage 32588740338, max number of nodes is 5, requires 6 nodes
----

[float]
[id="{p}-disable"]

> == Disabling autoscaling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Disable autoscaling
```

> Autoscaling can be disabled at any time by removing the `elasticsearch.alpha.elastic.co/autoscaling-spec` annotation from the Elasticsearch resource metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can disable autoscaling at any time by removing the `elasticsearch.alpha.elastic.co/autoscaling-spec` annotation from the Elasticsearch resource metadata.
```

> In the case of machine learning the following settings are not automatically reset:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For machine learning, the following settings are not automatically reset:
```

- `xpack.ml.max_ml_node_size`
- `xpack.ml.max_lazy_ml_nodes`
- `xpack.ml.use_auto_machine_memory_percent`

> You should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should
```
to be completed
